ques:-1 What are ruby Built in functions.
Ans = There are many built in function in ruby. dsome are as under:-
1.Array(arg)
Converts the argument to the array using to_a.
2.Float(arg)
Converts the argument to the float value
3.Integer(arg)
Converts the argument to the integer value. If the argument is string, and happen to start with 0x, 0b, 0, interprets it as hex, binary, octal string respectively.
4.String(arg)
Converts the argument to the string using to_s.
5.at_exit
Register the block for clean-up to execute at the interpreter termination.
6.autoload(module, file)
Specifies file to be loaded using the method require, when module accessed for the first time. module must be a string or a symbol.
7.chop!
Removes off the last character of the value of the variable $_ (2 characters if the last characters are "\r\n"). chop! modifies the string itself. chop makes a copy to modify.
8.global_variables
Returns the list of the global variable names defined in the program.
9.local_variables
Returns the list of the local variable names defined in the current scope.
10.loop
Loops forever (until terminated explicitly).
11.exit([status])
Exits immediately with status. if status is omitted, exits with 0 status.

there arec many more examples of builrt in functions like proc,lambda,print and printf etc

ques:-2 Difference between ruby array and hashes.
Ans= Array:-An array is a collection of different or similar items, stored at contiguous memory locations. The idea is to store multiple items of the same type together which can be referred to by a common name.
t arrays are of objects type i.e arrays are the collection of ordered, integer-indexed objects which can be store number, integer, string, hash, symbol, objects or even any other array. In general, an array is created by listing the elements which will be separated by commas and enclosed between the square brackets[].

Example:-arr = [12,13,14,15,90]
the idex of array is started from 0 ,so this array has 4 elements
Array positive index starts from 0. The negative index always starts with -1 which represents the elements from the end of the array. There can be 2-Dimensonal array i.e array will store another array. It is also termed as the nested arrays.

2.Using literal constructor[] In Ruby, [] is known as the literal constructor which can be used to create the arrays. Between [], different or similar type values can be assigned to an array
Example :- arr = Array['1','11','33']

Inbulit functions of array are as under
1.Array.first = this method is ud-sed to get the first elememts of array
2.Array.last = this function is used  to grt the last element of of array
3.Array.fetch()= this function is used to fetch the required element of array
4.Array.slice()= this function is used to get  new array, leaving the original array unaltered. However, if you use the slice! method, the original array will be changed as well.
5.Array.take() = this take funcction is used tothe specified number of entries from the beginning of an array
6.Array.sample()=To get a random element from an array, you could generate a random index between 0 and the last index of the array and use that as an index to retrieve the value, but there’s an easier way: thesample method grabs a random entry from an array.
7.Array.include?= this include? function, which returns true if the specified data is an element of the array
8.Array.reverse= Ruby arrays have a reverse function which can reverse the order of the elements in an array.
9.Array.sort = this function is used to get the sorted array in ruby
10/Array.push()= this function is used to push the some new elements to the array
11 Array.pop()- this function is used to delete the specified elements from array

Hashes:- Hash is a data structure that maintains a set of objects which are termed as the keys and each key associates a value with it. In simple words, a hash is a collection of unique keys and their values. Hashes are sometimes called as associative arrays because it associates values with each of the keys but there is a difference between hashes and arrays. Arrays always use an integer value for indexing whereas hashes use the object. Hashes are also known as the maps because they map keys to values.
There are several ways to create an array. But there are two ways which mostly used are as follows:

1.Using the new class method: new is a method which can be used to create the arrays with the help of dot operator. Here ::new method with zero, one or more than one arguments is called internally. Passing arguments to method means to provide the size to array and elements to array.
Example :- numbers = Array.new
In this example numbers is tha name of array and new is the method anf Array is a class which are predefined and which is used to create array

ques:-3What are blocks, proc and lamda in ruby.
ans = Blocks:-A block is the same thing as a method, but it does not belong to an object. Blocks are called closures in other programming languages. There are some important points about Blocks in Ruby:

Block can accept arguments and returns a value.
Block does not have their own name.
Block consist of chunks of code.
A block is always invoked with a function or can say passed to a method call.
To call a block within a method with a value, yield statement is used.
Blocks can be called just like methods from inside the method that it is passed to.

Proc:-Proc objects are blocks of code that have been bound to a set of local variables. Once bound, the code may be called in different contexts and still access those variables. A Proc can have one, none or many arguments. In this tutorial, we do a deep dive into Ruby procs.

Lambda:-A lambda is a way to define a block & its parameters with some special syntax.

ques:-4 Ruby Date & Time functions
ans = The Time class represents dates and times in Ruby. It is a thin layer over the system date and time functionality provided by the operating system. This class may be unable on your system to represent dates before 1970 or after 2038.

We can use Time object to get various components of date and time which gives the different objects of time


Ques:-4 String methods in ruby
ans-Ruby has many built in methods to work with strings. Strings in Ruby by default are mutable and can be changed in place or a new string can be returned from a method the methods are as under:-
1.length:-The .length property returns the number of characters in a string including white-space.
2.empty:-The .empty? method returns true if a string has a length of zero.
3.count:-The .count method counts how many times a specific character(s) is found in a string.
This method is case-sensitive.
4.insert:-The .insert method inserts a string into another string before a given index.
5.uppercase:-The .upcase method transforms all letters in a string to uppercase.
6.downcase:-The .downcase method transforms all letters in a string to lowercase.
7.reverse:-The .reverse method reverses the order of the characters in a string.
8.split:-The .split takes a strings and splits it into an array, then returns the array.
9.chop:-The .chop method removes the last character of the string.
10.to integer:-The .to_i method converts a string to an integer.
11.concatenation:-Ruby implements some methods to concatenate two strings together:
example "15"+"15"  =>"1515" whicjh is astring
12.index:-he index method returns the index position of the first occurrance of the substring or regular expression pattern match in a string.
If there is no match found, nil is returned.
A second optional parameter indicates which index position in the string to begin searching for a match.
13.clear:-Removes string content.
